well we have a team of correspondents
covering this story for us in the US in
a moment we'll be live in Atlanta with
Phil LEL but first to John henin who's
at the City University of uh New York so
John what's the situation there at the
moment tell us what's
happening well after more than a week of
this there's a sense of normaly like you
would have at say a refugee camp if you
look around uh all of these tents remain
those are where people live and sleep by
day and then if you look over on the
other side um behind this Monument here
uh you've got speakers one after the
other Who come out and sort of encourage
people remind them why they're here uh
and the entire time they're trying to
make sure the police don't come in and
sweep this all away and the rules are
different at each camp we went to
Princeton University earlier today they
tried to play by the rules there they
didn't put up 10
uh they wore masks because they were
worried about being identified they
don't want to be kicked out um and they
didn't use microphones because that's
against University rules but here and at
most other camps they simply don't play
by the University's rules and that's
kind of the point of an occupation
earlier we spoke to Linda sarur she is a
well-known Palestinian American uh uh
speaker and she had a lot to say about
what she thought about what these
students are accomplishing here's a
sample these young people are
reaffirming and demonstrating that the
tide is shifting on Palestine that the
Palestinian people have solidarity not
just across the United States of America
but across the world and these young
people stand in a long tradition of
student activism against the war in
Vietnam against South African apartheid
and now for freedom and justice for the
Palestinian
people so we had 100 students arrested
at nor Eastern University at hundreds
over the past week or so I was at the
January 6th protest I didn't see anybody
get arrested there do you think there's
a double standard here they're
absolutely is double standard in
American law enforcement and also uh
with these University presidents I mean
we are watching young people here who
are engaging and safe and peaceful
protesting they are young people that
you don't even have to agree with but
they live in America in a democracy and
they have every right to freedom of
speech and they are being brutalized by
law enforcement who could be using their
time for something else and in fact the
fact that we are suppressing young
people across this country only further
emboldens them and continues these types
of encampments and work for justice for
Palestine do you have any idea why not
one major university president is
supporting these students and these
demonstrations unfortunately the way the
university system is set up it they are
beholden to their donors um instead of
being loyal to their students the
students are what make these
universities universities are supposed
to be a place where we have an exchange
of ideas where we hear multiple
perspectives that we decide where we
want and what position we want to take
and the universities have demonstrated
that they have taken a side and it is
the side of genocide the side of
occupation and these young people are
rejecting that because they don't want
that to reflect their values which are
equity and Justice and freedom for
all so this has become the rhythm of
daily life here um and they live at risk
of arrest at all times uh about a 100
people uh were arrested in the in the
past 24 hours there have been over 650
people arrested over the past week or so
but when that happens and when they
clear out these camps the students
simply rebuild in the same place as they
have at Columbia and New York University
or they build elsewhere as we saw
earlier at
Princeton John hin thanks very much for
that well meanwhile Phil LEL is at Emory
University in Atlanta Phil describe the
scene in the at osphere there at the
moment well I would say it's less
protest and for one of a better word
it's more Festival like at the moment I
mean just 30 seconds ago we had Bob
Marley we had Stevie Wonder playing
there people here with their dogs it's
very much a positive uh Gathering and
that's very much by Design the
organizers have very publicly said on
social media you know bring a blanket
bring some food bring something to drink
uh and just make your presence known
this is not something where they want
the police to be involved they don't
want any arrests they want people to be
here in a positive way uh projecting
their thoughts to the people of Gaza and
doing what they can in any way to help
so that would be a complete contrast to
what we saw on Thursday of course in
exactly the same location where we saw
those officers from Emory police from
Atlanta police state troopers here uh
arresting some 28 people including
students and faculty members uh
professors uh one Professor for example
was taken into custody as well so a
complete difference and there is a very
small police presence I mean it's very
hard to SWOT a police officer here at
the moment uh you really have to look
hard because they are very much keeping
their distance and we're told by
organizers that they've been given until
midnight before there's any kind of
police action to take place I'm going to
talk now to a graduate student NE Patel
um nether Your Role here is I guess less
organizer and more like a liaison role
between the students and the university
how's that been going it's been going
really well um so I'm currently
president of our graduate student body
and it's just been so nice to see all of
our students who I've worked so closely
with this year come together we've got
our like Med students who set up a first
aid kit our law students have uh showed
up as legal observers and the community
is really just coming together um to
Rally in support of each other so how
are they feeling after Thursday I mean
Thursday was quite a traumatic
experience for a lot of people yeah I I
myself was actually here Thursday
morning when it all went down and it was
it was absolutely traumatizing um it was
terrifying but again it doesn't compare
to what people in guaza are facing right
now and we all recognize that and we've
come back together to reshare shft the
the idea to what we want is for emry to
commit to a full divestment of Israeli
aparti and cop City here in Atlanta and
that's what we want the focus on how do
you sort of realistically see it playing
out because term ends quite quite soon
the protesters say we're going to be
here every day come rain or shine no
matter what it sounds like the
University's got no um it's not planning
on changing its position so who blinks
first I think the university is going to
have to um this is not just something
that students decided Thursday morning
this something we've been asking from
the University since October um and
divestment efforts on this campus go
back to South African apartheid so this
is not new at all and I think it's time
that the university starts to listen
because them not listening is really
what's causing harm to our community all
right n Patel thanks very much well
speaking of the University's position
the president of the University Greg
fenver he is the man who on Thursday
defended the police being here he said
that the protests were largely organized
by outside influences and he's been
facing a lot of Demands for him to go in
fact on Friday uh one faculty held uh
vote for a motion of no of no confidence
in him at the moment he's not signaling
that he's going anywhere but his
position is to according to a lot of
people here looking increasingly
untenable so it's obviously having
ramifications closer to home as well as
the wider issue highlighting what's
happening in the Middle East at em
University in Atlanta for us there Phil
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
algera